I'm Travis Brown,
I'm the graphics and imaging evangelist,
and I'm really sort of pleased to talk
to you about some of the directions
that Apple's going on in terms of
color management because one thing
that's really important for Apple is
getting correct color for our users
and our developers because nothing is
more frustrating for a user when they
have all these color input devices,
color output devices,
and they try to use them and they
get different color on their screen,
they get different color on
their inkjet printer or someone
views a different color when they
send a PDF to another platform.
So I think it's important that you
understand that Apple's very serious
about color and we've delivered
pretty much the only color managed
operating system that's on the market
today and how we've accomplished
that feat is by taking our ColorSync
technology which has been with us for
a significant period of time which
was essentially an opt-in technology,
a technology that developers had.
We had to go to extra lengths to
embrace and utilize and certainly
that made sense in high end publishing
but now what we want to do is make
sure that the whole OS reacts the
proper way to color management,
image profiles, and whatnot.
And so what we've been doing is
essentially building ColorSync
in at lower and lower levels,
fundamental integration in
the operating system and as,
you know, for example one major
announcement that was made,
I think it was yesterday,
was the fact that
QuickTime image importers,
you know,
are going to respect color profiles
which is very significant because that
means that practically any application
that uses QuickTime image importer
for services is now going to do the
right things with regards to profiles.
But in the fact that we continue to build
ColorSync more and more in as sort of
the core DNA of the operating system,
we wanted to make sure that we continue
to innovate and express ColorSync in
interesting ways for both our users and
our professional users in particular
in addition to developers with lots of
new ways to access the functionality.
pleasure to invite David Hayward to the
stage to take you through the session.
Hello everyone,
welcome to the ColorSync session.
We have a big room and lots of
big topics to talk about today.
On a wide range of subjects,
let me kind of start out
with a basic outline of what
we'll be talking about today.
First of all,
for those of you that are new to
ColorSync or new to color management,
I'll start out with a general overview.
And then we'll start to talk
about some of the foundations
upon which ColorSync is built,
such as ColorSync and its
device integration layers,
how it ties in with Quartz.
After that,
we'll take a trip through some of the
high-level functionality that ColorSync
provides through ColorSync utility
and integration with other systems
like OpenGL and display calibration.
After that's over, I'll be talking about
something new today,
which is something called SIPs.
We'll save that for last.
So first of all,
an overview of ColorSync for those
of you that are new to the subject.
All of you are, I'm sure,
aware that there's a wide variety of
devices that we all work with now,
from scanners to cameras to displays,
big projectors, printers,
both PostScript and Inkjet.
And all of these devices that you've all
seen before represent colors in different
spaces and with widely different
behaviors and different gamuts or
range of colors that they can represent.
And this presents a fundamental problem
that makes it very difficult for content
to move between one device and another.
And the solution to this
problem is ColorSync.
And ColorSync provides a complete
color management system that's been
designed to provide consistent color
across this spectrum of devices.
That said, in addition to doing
device-level color correction,
it can also be used to do
abstract special effects,
such as hue rotation and
contrast enhancement.
These kind of changes that
may be very important.
And it's important to
you as a content creator,
but may not be associated
with any particular device.
We'll come back to that
throughout the presentation.
So this is an outline of how ColorSync
fits into the overall system on Mac OS X.
At the top,
we have high-level applications,
such as the ones that use Uwrite,
and also applications such as ColorSync
Utility and other tools that we provide.
These are all built upon
high-level application frameworks,
such as Carbon and Cocoa,
which all in turn use our
variety of graphics technologies
that we have on the system,
such as image capture, quartz,
quick time, and printing.
The key thing about all these
graphics technologies is that they
all now make use of ColorSync,
and this provides a core service to
the rest of the system for dealing
with color consistently and correctly.
ColorSync is based on
three key foundations.
One is profiles.
Profiles are binary data files which
hold the device characterization.
It describes the way the device responds
to color in a device-independent way.
The other key foundation that ColorSync
is based upon is device integration,
and this I'll talk about
in more detail in a bit,
but the basic idea is to be able
to make it so that ColorSync and
client applications can know what the
current profile for all the devices
that are connected to a computer are.
The other third piece of foundation that
ColorSync is dependent upon are CMMs,
or Color Management Modules.
And these are the computational engines
which are used to actually perform
color transformations between one
source profile and another profile.
So that's the basic outline of how
ColorSync fits into the system.
Let me give a brief,
simple example of how ColorSync
is used in everyday practice.
For example, we have an application
that's calling ColorSync.
It's either calling it directly
or it's calling it indirectly
through other graphics APIs.
But the scenario is basically the same.
The idea is we want to be
able to acquire images,
for example, from a camera.
And we want to make sure that when
we get the image from the camera that
we also have a profile that describes
the way that camera responds to color.
This profile can be
embedded in that image,
so now wherever that image travels,
it'll always be possible for ColorSync
to know the behavior of that device
and how that image represents color
and how the image is supposed to look.
So once we have an image
with an embedded profile,
a ColorSync application is going to
then want to display that on a screen,
for example.
ColorSync can determine
the profile for the screen,
and now given these two profiles,
the source profile for the camera and
the destination profile for the display,
ColorSync can concatenate
these two data files and create
what they call a color world.
This color world can then be used
to match all the RGB values from the
original color space to the display
color space in a manner that creates
the best possible consistent color.
Similar process occurs when
it comes time to print.
In this case,
ColorSync determines what the
best profile is for the current
printer and its current settings.
And again, the source data is now matched
from the source color space to
the destination printer profile.
This is a very simple example here.
In reality,
documents can be much more complicated,
and the life of a document can
be much more long and drawn out.
So, for example,
this is a very conceivable operation,
for example.
An image can be acquired through
the image capture architecture,
and it can then be edited
in a Carbon application.
After that,
it could be converted to a different
file format using some QuickTime tool,
and then maybe sent in an
email to another user who opens
it in preview and prints it.
As soon as printing occurs,
there's a whole new set of
operations that start to occur,
such as the data being
rasterized by Quartz,
sent through the printer driver,
and ultimately sent as
bits to the inkjet printer.
So this is a long chain of operations,
and each one of these steps,
color management may be involved,
or should be involved if you want
to get the best possible output.
Under Jaguar, however,
there were a few places in this chain
where there were potential weak links,
places where applications had
to go to a little extra effort
in order to make sure that the
correct color management occurred.
For example,
image capture architecture was
hindered by the minor fact that some
cameras didn't register profiles.
This meant that when an image was
first brought into the system,
there was no profile
to describe the image,
which could cause problems later.
Similarly, when QuickTime APIs were
invoked to modify an image,
apps had to go to a little extra
effort in order to explicitly
check for embedded profiles.
This created a persistent problem,
which was that oftentimes the
same document could be opened
up in different applications,
and depending on whether that application
respected the profile or didn't,
you could get different results.
Similarly,
there was a dilemma that occurred
when it came time to print,
which was that not all print
drivers register profiles.
So one of our major objectives for
Panther was to solve these problems
and make it as easy as possible for
applications to get the right output,
which is, after all, what we all want.
So we've made several changes in
the system to solve these problems.
One was, in image capture,
we now associate a generic camera
profile for all cameras if they
don't register a profile otherwise.
Also, as we mentioned earlier,
QuickTime now makes an effort
to respect embedded profiles.
This is a very important change to
the system and means that documents
will now look very consistent
no matter how they're opened up.
Lastly, it is now possible for
CUPS PostScript and Raster
drivers to register profiles.
So this is also a great story in that it
completes the picture at the output side,
making sure that we have the correct
profile at every step in the process.
So, as I mentioned before,
one of the key foundations upon which
ColorSync is based is device integration.
Let me speak a little
bit about that in detail.
Again,
as I showed in the previous diagram,
we have ColorSync,
which is based on one key thing,
which is device integration,
and this allows ColorSync to be able to
know what the profiles are for devices.
The key feature of the device
integration is for novice
users in the sense that now,
with proper device integration,
when a device is connected,
a profile will be automatically
registered with the system
on behalf of the user.
This means that even users who do not
even know about ColorSync will get
good color output on their devices.
The way this is accomplished
is by automatic registration.
Automatic registration involves
registration of devices with
their name and their ID,
different modes of the
devices based on ID and name,
and a specification of a default
or factory profile for each device.
Again,
the objective of this is to make it so
that novice users will automatically
get good color results without having
to do any special settings or options.
However, we also want to make this a
powerful feature that expert users
can take advantage of as well.
And this is done by supporting overrides
of profiles with device integration.
Overrides are something that
calibration applications will use
in order to change the factory
profile with a calibrated profile.
It is also something that
an administrator can do to
override the default profile
for all users of the machine.
Or, of course,
users as well can change the
profiles to their liking.
Lastly,
there is an API for device integration,
so your applications can become aware
of profiles as they become attached
to the machine through their devices.
Let me talk a bit more detail
about the automatic registration.
Again, this is the key functionality
that makes it very easy for new
users to get good color output.
This is accomplished in three ways based
on the three different device managers.
First of all, the Windows server,
whenever a display device is detected,
will automatically query the display and
ask the display for its EDID information.
From that EDID information,
it will create a profile
and register that device.
For image capture,
a similar process occurs
whenever a camera is plugged in.
If the driver supports profiles,
it will tell image capture about that
profile and that will be registered.
If it doesn't,
then a generic camera profile
will be registered instead.
Lastly, for the print manager,
profiles are registered for devices
whenever a print queue is created.
This happens in two ways,
depending on what type of
printer driver you have.
For Tioga printer drivers,
the print driver returns to ColorSync
a dictionary of device names and device
modes and the profiles for each mode.
For CUPS drivers,
this information is specified in a
PostScript printer description file,
which I'll talk about in a
little bit more detail now.
So now with PPDs,
there's a new entry that we're proposing.
This is very important for CUPS drivers,
both for PostScript and
for raster drivers.
Because now it is possible in the
PPD for the file to specify what
the modes of a device are and what
the profiles are for each mode.
The format for this is the
new keyword CUPS ICC profile,
followed by a mode specifier
and a profile specifier.
The mode specifier is a
concatenation of three fields,
the color model, the media type,
and the resolution.
Any of these fields can be emitted,
and it means that that mode will apply
to any model media or resolution.
The profile specifier
is very simple as well.
All it is is a standard path
that's relative to the user
share CUPS profiles directory.
We recommend that if you are going to be
installing profiles in this directory,
that you should create a subdirectory
for your own driver so that you do not
conflict with other drivers' profiles.
Let me show a simple
example of this in practice.
Here we have a PostScript printer
PPD file that is registering two modes,
one for 600x600 DPI and
one for 1200x1200 DPI.
and then the profile for that.
So it's very simple.
So the best way to show all
this is to show it in action.
So I'd like to bring up
to the stage Luke Wallis,
who will be demonstrating
the device integration and
speaking more on other subjects.
Thank you, David.
Can I get the machine
number one on the screen,
please?
All right.
So the automatic registration of
the device is really a great story
that we are promoting on Mac OS X.
But what I would like to start with is to
show you how a user can get access to the
ColorSync device integration database,
and how he or she can decide what
kind of profiles are going to be used
with the devices known to the system.
So all this information is available in
ColorSync Utility under the Devices tab.
As you see, there are different types
of devices listed here:
scanners, cameras, displays, printers,
and proofers.
And if, for example,
I open the cameras tab,
you can see that the
Canon Powershot S100,
my favorite camera,
is known to this system.
The information that I'm
looking here for is the profile.
This camera, or its device manager,
in this case image capture,
registered for me a default
mode and a factory profile.
And in the same time, me as a user,
I have an opportunity here,
an option given by ColorSync utility,
to override this factory profile.
And I could do that if I desired so,
by assigning any of the
profiles that I can choose.
But in this particular
case of the camera,
I was quite pleased with the results,
so I didn't need to do that.
The next on the list are displays.
Same information is available here.
I have the same option to
override the factory profile,
register automatically.
And as a curiosity,
we actually had to override
it because we wanted to have
colors look right on the display.
The video is just split through
the splitter and the same image
is displayed on the screen.
So in order to get the colors better,
as you see,
we overrode the original automatically
registered profile with the
profile that we created just a few
moments before the session started.
And the next group of devices I would
like to talk about are printers.
As you heard from David,
there are different types of
printers supported in Mac OS X.
There are Tioga raster printers,
which typically comes
with OEM custom drivers.
There are PostScript printers,
and last but not least,
the CAPS raster printers.
So I selected one representative
for each of those.
The first on the list is Canon S450,
which is controlled by the Tioga driver.
And this driver registered one
mode and one factory profile.
When I was browsing through the
contents of the driver package,
I discovered that there is
a slightly newer version of
the profile for this printer,
so I used my option here,
and I overwrote the original
one with slightly newer profile.
The next on the list is probably
very well known for you,
Apple LaserWriter Pro 630.
This is a very old printer manufactured
at some point of time by Apple,
but the reason I chose this particular
printer was that I was able to
find a PPD which would declare
a profile for this printer the
way David described it a moment ago.
As you see,
the name of this profile is LaserWriter
Pro 630 Profile and is located in
user share caps profiles LaserWriter,
but looks like we didn't do
here what David was suggesting.
We did not create our
subfolder for those profiles.
The next on the list is Stylus C80,
which is controlled by the
CAPS GIMP print driver.
And the reason why I chose this
particular printer is because I wanted
to show you what is going to happen
if there are no profiles in the PPD.
In this case,
the printing system will find out all the
color models supported by this printer
and will by default register these as
the mode of operations with ColorSync.
So, even though there are no
factory profiles available,
me as a user,
I as a user have an option to
assign my own profile to this
device for a specific mode.
And as a matter of fact,
I had built two profiles
for this printer,
CMYK and RGB.
And I used CMYK.
color sync utility to
assign these profiles.
In the case when there is no profile
available for a given mode of operation,
the printing system will provide
on the fly a default profile which
will be used in the case when we
need to do color conversion to this
particular process color model.
So, in conclusion of this
little demonstration,
I would like to say that all devices,
color devices,
known to this system will be represented
by a set of ICC profiles corresponding
to their modes of operation.
And the most important use of
these profiles is obviously
to do the color matching.
But in the same time,
these profiles are available to other
system components and to applications
and can be used in a variety,
for a variety of reasons.
For example,
a very color-savvy application can
figure out the device gamut or find
other properties of this device.
Or the profile can be used
for device simulation,
soft-proofing, and things like that.
So now let's switch to slides
so I can get the projector up.
Let's start with taking a look at the
very typical scenario of an application,
which goal is to acquire the data
from the color device input and
reproduce it on a variety of different
color output devices like displays,
printers,
or export this data in the PDF format.
There are two main points that
I would like to make using this slide.
First of all, as you can see,
there is one common component for
all the operations that I described,
and this component is ColorSync.
Another point is that, as you see,
the application doesn't have to
necessarily go all the way to ColorSync,
but it can use other system
components which handle things like
color data acquisition or color
data creation because ColorSync is
integrated into those components.
Let's take a look at the
color data acquisition.
The component which is the
closest to the input device,
in this case the camera,
the image capture device module,
is responsible for transferring the
data from the device into the system.
And if the camera happens to attach
a profile to each individual image,
then this module will take care of
passing that profile through all layers
of image capture to the application.
But if there is no profile
attached to the image,
image capture will consult
ColorSync device integration
database and it will retrieve
appropriate profile for this device.
When we take a look at the
process of color data creation,
we can see that there are two components
which are always present here.
Besides ColorSync, there is Quartz,
which is the Mac OS X graphics system
based on the PDF imaging model.
In this particular scenario,
ColorSync will be used into full
extent of its functionality.
We'll provide the profiles
for the destination devices,
but in the same time,
we'll be used for converting
the data using profiles for the
devices' source color spaces
and using the registered CMMs.
So this slide leads me to the topic
I would like to focus on today,
which is the integration
of ColorSync and Quartz.
Our high-level objective here is to
integrate graphics and color management
by satisfying several basic requirements.
First of all,
we would like to have a centralized
color matching for consistent results.
Another very important requirement
is the ability to composite
different color spaces and opacity.
To satisfy this requirement,
ColorSync will be used to convert the
data from many different source color
spaces into quartz compositing space.
This also has to be a scalable
solution in the sense of working with
a variety of different applications.
On one end,
we may have those old legacy applications
which don't know anything about color
management or they don't want to
participate in color management.
So for these,
Quartz needs to provide some default
settings and make sure that these
applications can work seamlessly
with the rest of the system,
which is very color management-centric.
The most desirable model for the
application is the one in which
application uses calibrated color.
What I mean is everything is properly
tagged and so the system can easily
Collect this data from the
application and do the right
thing when the data is to send to
different kind of output devices.
In this realm of calibrated color,
we may have the very high-end
applications which may desire to do the
color management completely on their own.
So Quartz also has to work
with applications like that.
Other important requirements
are color accuracy,
performance, and PDF compatibility.
For those of you who may be
new to this topic like me,
very quickly go through the few of
basic ideas pertaining to color in PDF,
compare them to those
in ICC and ColorSync,
and then see how we
implemented that in Quartz.
As you may know,
the color spaces in PDF are defined
by the set of known color spaces,
which can be divided into
three different groups.
There are legacy device color spaces,
calibrated color spaces,
and finally ICC-based color spaces.
As you may know, this list also reflects,
in some sense,
the history of color management,
where initially only device
color spaces were known,
but as we know today,
they were really very bad for any
kind of color management because the
color appearance is device-dependent.
To address this problem,
calibrated color was invented along
with the idea of color matching through
device-independent color spaces.
And over the years,
the concept of calibrated color
evolved into ICC profiles,
which now are the de facto standard
among color professionals and can
be embedded in almost all known
data formats supporting color.
Another concept important from
the color management point of
view in PDF are color conversions.
Color conversions can be
described as a function of source,
destination, and rendering intent.
The similar concepts exist
in ColorSync and ICC,
but the only form of the color space
that we use there is the ICC profile.
And as I mentioned a moment ago,
today this is the most general form
of the color space description.
The color conversions in
ICC and ColorSync are somewhat
similar to those in PDF,
with the option for inserting
intermediate profiles between
the source and destination.
In Quartz, the color space, in essence,
is represented by one
or more ICC profiles.
This way, we can preserve the original
PDF concept of matching a single
source to a single destination,
but in the same time,
we can build those multi-stage and
complex color transform which are
suitable for more advanced color
management like soft proofing,
special effects, color device simulation,
et cetera, et cetera.
And if the need arises to embed
such a color space in the document,
the sequence of profiles can be
concatenated by ColorSync into a single
profile and embedded in the document.
Another important rule that Quartz,
in some sense, inherited from PDF is the
color space equivalence.
This rule says that the color conversions
are necessary only if the source color
space is different from the destination.
And Quartz is using this very
simple rule to organize properly
the flow of the color data through
multiple stages of rendering.
So in a summary,
all color spaces inside Quartz
will end up as ICC profiles.
The easiest way to operate, as you see,
is by using ICC-based color spaces,
because we are just simply extracting the
profile from the color space definition.
In the case of calibrated color spaces,
those can be very easily
repacked using their calibration
record in the form of a profile.
And in the same time,
we still have to support those
legacy device color spaces,
and in order to work with these,
Quartz is going to use some
predefined default profiles.
There is a wide variety of ICC-based
color spaces provided by Quartz,
but I would like to focus on those
which allow you to access the
ColorSync device integration database.
An example are the color spaces which
allow for drawing directly to the screen.
Examples of these color spaces,
more specifically,
are Display RGB color space,
which is in essence a wrapper
around the primary display profile.
Another color space like
this is Display Gray,
which as you can see is
composed of two profiles,
device link converting gray
to RGB and then attached to
the primary display profile.
And for more advanced use,
there are Display Color Spaces with ID,
which are wrappers for
Display by AV ID profiles.
Quartz also, in Panther,
helps to solve the problem of
drawing to multiple screens.
There are two basic choices
that applications can make.
One, as I call it,
a simple model in which color is
matched only to the main display,
and the application doesn't take
any or makes any updates on the
screen on the profile change.
On the other end,
the application can use what I call
a complete model in which the color
will be matched to individual displays.
The application can register
for notifications on the screen
or profile change and make the
proper updates when necessary.
And obviously,
there are some possibilities for
combining these two profiles and
come up with the application-specific
solution to this problem.
A very important aspect of
color management in Mac OS X is
color management in printing.
Many of you may already know that
the printing in Mac OS X consists
of two main components,
the front-end and the back-end.
The main role of the front-end
is to choose the printer and
collect the print options,
for example, through the interface.
And in the same time,
to spool the print job into PDF.
The backend job is to convert the
spooled PDF into appropriate format
For the printer that we are
going to print our job on.
If we take a closer look at what is
happening at the printing front end,
we may notice that all color data in
this pool PDF is tagged with profiles.
By definition,
we are not doing any printer-specific
color conversions at the front end,
but another important step is that
we are consulting the ColorSync
device integration database and
extracting the profile matching
the current printing condition.
What is happening at the backend
depends on the type of the printer.
For the raster printers,
what we have to do is to convert the
spooled PDF into printer profile from
the color management's perspective.
And for that, we extract the printer
profile from the print job.
And if the profile is not there,
printing system will provide a default
profile so this matching can occur.
For PostScript, we have two options.
The first is traditional
color matching in the printer.
For this case,
all the profiles from the spoof
PDF are converted to PostScript CSAs.
But in Panther, we added a new option
for PostScript printers.
Now we can do color matching on
the computer using ColorSync.
In this case, we need to retrieve,
similarly as in the
case of raster printers,
the profiles for the current
print job from the print job.
And if there are no profiles available,
but we still want to do the computer
color matching by ColorSync,
we'll be using some default profiles.
In this light, a new addition of drawing
directly in printer color space,
I think, is also very important
that comes with Panther.
This color space is based on the printer
instance and current print settings.
This way, when the user clicks on the
print button in the print dialog,
an application has a chance to find
out what are exact printing conditions
in terms of the color space and make
the proper adjustments if necessary.
Thank you.
Another addition is
Printer Calibration API.
This API allows a calibrator to
submit a calibration target in
the form of a PDF file through the
calibration path to a specified printer.
It requires specific calibration target
information through which the calibrator
can instruct the system which color
conversions have to happen and which
color conversion must not happen.
A very important subject that I would
like to mention here is importing
and tag data to Mac OS X platform.
As you know, for many years,
we've been evangelizing usage of the
ColorSync default profiles for documents,
and Quartz is exporting these profiles
in the form of user default color spaces.
If the application makes this first
step of assigning the user profile,
the whole color story on Mac OS X looks
much better because very often it's
impossible from the depth of the
operating system to find out where
this device data is coming from.
And assigning those profiles in the
depths of courts are sometimes difficult.
The next very powerful addition
to Panther are quartz filters.
In a nutshell,
I would define the Quartz filter as a
new optional component in the Quartz
imaging and color matching pipeline,
which allows to associate a sequence
of imaging or color correction
operation with a single drawing.
The Quartz filter can act on all drawings
operations or only on a specified set,
can be configured to perform very
specialized imaging and color operations,
and finally can be defined and
saved in XML so the applications
and users can easily exchange those.
When we look at the Quartz architecture,
where the Quartz filter fit,
we see that they are located right
in the middle of this structure.
And this is the main reason why,
in Panther,
we will make the Quartz filters available
to the end user only through the use of
system-built utilities and applications.
But we will be working on the
proper API to provide access
for applications to the filters.
So this access is safe for both
the system and the application.
What I'd like to do now is to
give you a quick demo of how the
filters can be used on Mac OS X,
how those quartz filters
can be used in Panther.
Let's start with a very simple example.
What I like to do is to print the
image which I acquired with my camera.
And when I go to the print dialog,
if the system, yes, and
As you see, a new thing added to printing
is the automatic soft proofing.
My chosen profile was
a monochrome printer,
and what I do is I soft-proof
it in the print preview,
which is in addition to
previous print previews,
which mostly were concerned
with the page layout.
I can switch between the unmodified
image and the soft-proof image.
So this is the first example
of using Quartz Filter.
The soft-proofing is
implemented using soft-proofing.
Now, let's take a look at this image.
As you can tell, it's very, very dark.
So I wonder if there is something
that I could do about that.
If you go and you open the
print dialog one more time,
you will notice that on Panther,
we added a new PDE for ColorSync.
And this PDE allows me to, first of all,
on the PostScript printer,
to choose which option of color
matching I'm going to exercise.
I can perform color matching on the
computer using the printer profile,
or I can fall back on the traditional
matching in printing path.
In addition to that,
I can apply quartz filters right before
the job is going to be spooled into PDF.
And not quite by coincidence,
I have a filter which
I called lighter color here,
which I'm going to apply to this image
before it's being spooled to PDF.
And if I do that, and I preview...
My image now,
I can see that it's much more
readable and I would print rather
this image than the previous one.
Let's make one more trip to the
print dialog and look at the
last option in ColorSync PDE.
As you saw at the bottom
of the Quartz filter menu,
there is an option for
adding filters to printing.
If I do that, the document is pulled into
PDF and sent with the OpenApple
event to ColorSync Utility,
which opens it along with
the filter inspector.
As you see, I have several filters
existing on the system.
And if I want to see what they do,
I simply check the preview checkbox.
And as you see,
I can convert everything to blue tone.
I can use the opposite of the filter
I applied in the previous example,
which I call darker color.
I can convert everything
to gray tone and so forth.
As you see, I can add and remove filters,
but what I would like to
concentrate on is the usage of
filters for color conversions.
There are many different options
that I can set with defaults,
but I don't think we have time
to go and examine all of these.
So let's stick for now to using the
filters just for color conversion.
The first thing which I can decide...
Here is if I want to do all my
color correction on all objects
in the document the same way,
or I want to do different color
correction on different types of objects.
The next thing is I can decide
how to use the rendering intent.
If I leave it in the automatic setting,
the rendering intent from the
original document will be used.
If not, I can override it with my
choice of the rendering intent.
Next, what I can do is to define
the intermediate transform,
which I want to be applied
to my document or the object,
depending on the setting.
And in this pop-up,
you will see all the profiles
available on your system,
which are appropriate to be used
as an intermediate transform.
And finally, I can convert the data
to a specified target.
And in this case,
the list will be populated with all
the profiles that are suitable for
destination of the color matching.
So, as you saw,
ColorSync Utility was able
to open a PDF document,
and indeed,
it can open many different file formats,
including PDF and PostScript.
And what I would like to do now is to
show you how I can use Quartz filters
to color manage a PDF document.
So, I selected this particular document,
which has all typical
components of a PDF.
I have text, I have vector graphics,
and I have images.
In order to demonstrate that,
let me create some PDF.
Oh, sorry.
Let's run it.
Filter.
And where I will put all the settings
for this particular document.
So, first thing which I would like
to do is perhaps to change the
appearance of the graphics.
What I will do, I will choose the blue
tone abstract profile,
which, if I previewed it,
changed quite a bit of the
appearance of the graphics.
This is the color
component in this document.
Now, I don't want to leave the images,
which are really very vibrant in color.
So, what I will do,
I will choose a little bit
different correction for the images.
And in this case, I will use the sepia.
As you see,
my original document changed very
dramatically from the original,
but just by a few mouse clicks.
So,
what I see now that I haven't noticed,
before that I have a little text in
the headline in the yellow color.
And since I wanted to use
as few colors as possible,
I think I can take care of this text by
applying some other transform to text.
And the rest of the text on
this page is black and white.
So, I will use the gray
tone abstract profile.
And as you see now,
I have only a few colors on this page.
And indeed,
this is what I wanted to do to it,
to this document.
So, now I'm ready to apply this text.
filter and save it.
When I take the last final
look at my new document,
I think that the image is perhaps
a little bit too saturated.
So let me try to change
that a little bit,
and I'll go and select
the images one more time,
and I'll use a custom transform.
And if I lower the saturation,
the result has changed even more.
And this is the format
that I like to save,
and ColorSync utility allows me to
save it in many different file formats.
I can save it in most of
the known bitmap formats,
but also I can export it, for example,
to PostScript.
So let me do that.
And...
And now I can save my document
I started with by applying all
the filters that I showed you,
but I can also just save this
document for some other situation when
I want to start with the original.
So I'll simply revert.
And, whoops, didn't revert.
Not quite,
because the top is still duotone.
Sorry, I must have... Oh, no,
I see what's happening.
I was applying the filter all the time.
Okay, so this document came
to this original form,
and now if I go and look for my new
document in the PostScript format
and I open it with ColorSync utility,
you can compare the results of
applying a filter and changing quite
dramatically the appearance of it.
Looks like my demo didn't... I forgot
about one step that I should have saved
the last adjustment of the images,
but you have an idea what
can be done with the filters.
And this concludes my talk
on ColorSync and Quartz,
so thank you very much
for your attention,
and it's all yours, David.
Great, great.
Great job, Luke.
So, as you know,
Luke was showing ColorSync Utility
and showing the new filters
capability of ColorSync Utility.
We have some other
changes in there as well,
so I'd like to use this
opportunity to speak about them.
First of all,
ColorSync Utility is now the new
home for the ColorSync preferences.
We've added the filter support,
which Luke just demonstrated.
We have some administration features,
which allows an administrator
user to specify the profiles
that can be used by default by
other users on the same machine.
Also, we have profile first aid
and some new 3D view options.
Let me just take this opportunity
to demonstrate these real quickly.
So, if we can go over to
demo machine number two,
please.
Okay.
So I'm just going to launch in the
new ColorSync utility on Panther.
Let me hide this.
And as you can see now,
the ColorSync preferences are now here.
They used to be in the
system preferences,
and now they're here.
So ColorSync utility, more than ever,
is now the one-stop shopping for
all ColorSync-related settings.
One thing to be aware of is, for example,
a lot of applications like to be able
to provide a button in their UI to send
users to the ColorSync preferences.
This was accomplished
in the past via an API,
CM Launch ColorSync Preferences.
This API will still work on Panther.
Instead of launching system preferences,
it will now launch ColorSync utility.
One of the other features that
we've always evangelized is
ColorSync Profile First Aid.
I always like to mention this because
it's a great utility that developers
should run on any profiles they ship
with their applications or that their
applications create to make sure
that they are valid ICC profiles.
Similarly,
if you ever come across any bad
profiles that are not correctly
flagged by ColorSync Profile First Aid,
feel free to send them to us and
we'll add more tests in the future.
The last thing I wanted to show in
ColorSync Utility is some new things
we've added to the profile viewer.
This is some fun stuff that
we've added to make viewing
of profiles more interesting.
So as before,
we were using OpenGL in order to take
all the content of an ICC profile
and show it in three dimensions.
So we can look at it and spin it around,
zoom in, zoom out.
What we've added now is a new
contextual menu on this so
that you can add more options.
For example,
instead of just showing it in LAB space,
you can see it in LUV space,
if that's your favorite space.
Or you can see it in YXY space,
which is kind of neat.
Usually people see XY plots from above.
It's always kind of neat
to see it from the sides,
too.
One of the other features we added was,
let me go back to LAB space,
is the ability,
this has been often requested,
the ability to compare the
gamuts of two profiles.
We've accomplished that in a very simple,
elegant way.
What we do now is we have a
contextual menu that allows us
to hold a profile for comparison.
So let's say I want to take this
generic RGB profile and compare
it against the other profiles
that are installed in the system.
All I do is command-click,
select hold for comparison,
and you can see it kind
of changes slightly.
What that is is an indication that
now as I switch to other profiles,
we can see how the generic
RGB profile compares to it.
So for example,
I can go to the display profile and
see the two of them next to each other.
Let me zoom it in a bit.
And you can see the overlap
between the two color spaces.
So here you can see all of our WebSafe
profiles as points and how they compare
to the outline of the other profile.
You see the sepia tone profile,
which is kind of cool to look at in 3D.
So that's one of the key
features that we've added.
So let me go back to my slides.
So it's interesting that the last
thing I was showing was ColorSync
using OpenGL to show profiles.
Well, there's another way that you can
integrate ColorSync and OpenGL together,
and that is to be able to do
real-time color correction and
enhancement of video real-time.
And this is something we showed for
the first time last year at WWDC.
I want to refresh what we spoke
about then and also tell you about
some of the new APIs we've added to
ColorSync to make it easier for you
to do this in your own applications.
So for a bit of review,
the basic idea is to be able to provide
real-time color correction of video,
which has been something in the
past that's only been able to be
accomplished on very high-end hardware.
And now we can do that today on desktop
machines because we have very advanced
hardware available on video cards.
Modern video cards,
some of them have support for
per-pixel 3D texture lookup.
And these are available on
NVIDIA GeForce TI cards and also
on ATI Radeon 9000 series cards.
And by loading into these tables
color correction transformations,
we can actually accomplish
real-time color correction.
The great thing about this is it actually
is a great story because it shows the
integration between all the graphics
technologies available on Mac OS X.
Because what we're doing is
we're combining the advantages
and powers of ColorSync,
OpenGL, Quartz, and QuickTime,
all in one example.
The basic premise is that we want
to be able to play QuickTime content
onto a Quartz OpenGL surface.
And attached to that surface will be
a 3D texture that's been built from
a ColorSync ColorWorld reference.
In order to make this easier for
your applications to achieve this,
we've added some new API to ColorSync.
The first is a new
API called CM Make Profile.
And this API is useful in several ways.
First of all, you can use it to create
abstract profiles,
which can be used for doing
hue rotation or contrast or
other things like sepia tone.
You can also be used to
make standard RGB profiles,
such as profiles for NTSC standards
and other standard color spaces.
So it's a general-purpose function
for creating profiles given
a CFDictionary of attributes.
It's a very simple function to use.
I'll show it a little
bit later in one example.
The other function we provided is
an API called CW Fill Lookup Table.
And what this function does is takes
a ColorSync color world reference
and fills in a table that is suitable
for being loaded up to a video card.
So let me give an example of
using our CM Make Profile API.
Again, as I mentioned before,
the way the CM Make Profile API works
is you pass in a profile to modify
and a dictionary of attributes
that will tell ColorSync how to
modify and create that profile.
In this case,
we want to create an abstract profile
that will rotate all the colors in a
color space by a specific hue angle.
So this function here that I've outlined,
you pass in a profile
and you pass in a float,
which is the angle of rotation.
So what I want to do is build up
a dictionary with key-value pairs.
The first key-value pair is
going to be the key proc,
which is the callback proc.
And then I need to give, as the value,
the address of a function,
which in this case is the
function myLabToLab proc.
Well, CF doesn't have,
Core Foundation does not have a way
to pass an address as a CF type.
So what we do instead is we take that
address and coerce it to an SN64 and
then create a CF integer number for that
integer and put that in the dictionary.
The reason why we use an N64 is so that
way the same code will work unaltered
under 64-bit addressing in the future.
Similarly, the other thing we need to add
to the dictionary is a refcon,
where we could provide a pointer to a
structure of interesting parameters.
In this case,
the parameter is not very interesting.
It's just the address of a float
value for the angle to rotate.
But the idea is the same.
We take the address of the angle,
we coerce it to a 64-bit integer,
and add that to the dictionary
with the key refcon.
Once we've created the dictionary,
we call cmMakeProfile,
and that does all the work.
What that API then does is
it unpacks the dictionary,
gets the refcon and the
callback proc out of it,
and calls that proc repeatedly for
all the possible values in order
to build the abstract profile.
This is a very, very easy way to create
an abstract profile.
Once they're done,
the function does a little cleanup,
but perhaps what would be slightly
interesting to look at is what
our lab-to-lab proc looks like.
This is a very simple callback proc.
What it takes as parameters
are pointers to L,
A, and B values, and a refcon, of course.
The function's responsibility
is to take those values,
look at the initial values,
and alter them and return the new values,
and that value will be
used in the profile.
This function is very simple.
All it does is take the initial
AB coordinates and rotates
them by the angle provided.
The other code snippet I wanted
to show was an example of using
the new CWFillLookupTexture API.
Again, this function I'm describing here
is a function that will make a
3D texture given three profiles:
a source profile, an abstract profile,
for example,
one that we created using the
hue rotation code earlier,
and a destination profile.
In order to do that, first of all,
we need to create a color world.
I haven't shown that here.
There's other examples for
how to create color worlds,
but I've just, in place of that,
put in a function to
create a color world.
Once you have a color world,
we need to call the
CW fill lookup texture,
call twice.
The first time we call it,
all we need to do is determine the size
of the data that it's going to require,
given the number of grid
points that we desire.
Once we get back the size,
we allocate the memory of that size
and then call ColorSync CW fill
lookup texture to populate that
table with the appropriate values.
Then there's existing code snippets,
which we will provide in order
to show you how to apply that
texture to an OpenGL surface,
but it's fairly trivial.
So all that's good to see on the screen,
but perhaps the best thing to
do is to whet your appetite and
show you a brief example of how
this works in a real live demo.
So if I go back to demo two, please.
So what I have here is an example
application called ColorWorld.
Excuse the pun.
And what I can do with this,
in addition to opening images,
is open up movies.
And then what I can do is I can
bring up a little inspector window,
which allows me to show what profiles
I'm going to be applying to that window.
I have four profiles to choose from.
I can specify source, destination,
abstract, and proofing profiles.
Today I'm just going to show you a little
bit about the source and destination.
If I know that this profile
would be more appropriate for
an sRGB profile for this movie,
I can just change the source profile,
and we can already see the difference
between the left half and the right half.
But this is not really
all that interesting.
Let's start playing the movie and start
putting an abstract profile in between.
And what you can see already is
that we can start rotating the hue,
and we're all doing this real time,
or we can adjust the saturation down.
So let's say we want to bring the
saturation down or bring it up.
So as you know,
this is the trailer for finding Nemo.
And what I want to use is I want to
use this application as an example for
how to make it easier to find Nemo.
So what we're going to do is I'm going
to desaturate this image way down,
but then what I'm going to do is I'm
going to limit it to only desaturate
the colors that aren't Nemo.
So let's see if I can
get these colors right.
Oh, I've got it backwards.
So now you can see everything in
the image is very desaturated,
but Nemo still looks nice and bright.
So now I can go and-- I could
have been doing this live,
I suppose,
but it's hard when he's moving.
So now I have an example
of the application.
showing real-time color
correction of video content,
doing selective,
very complex abstract profile generation,
and it's all very responsive.
I can change Nemo's hue as well.
I can go back and just...
Disney Pictures presents
a Pixar animation.
So that gives you an idea.
So hopefully this inspires
you guys to add 3D hardware
texture support to support color
management in your applications.
So back to slides, please.
So one of the next things I'd like
to talk about is display calibration.
One of the features that ColorSync has
provided in the past on Mac OS X is
the ability for the users not
only to have automatic profiles
generated for their displays,
but also for users to calibrate their
own displays in an easy-to-use fashion.
This was achieved by users going
to the display preferences in
the system preferences UI and
clicking on the calibrate button.
In the past,
that calibrate button would simply
launch the Apple calibrator.
Third-party calibrators were supported,
obviously,
but they were not integrated into
the system in the same fashion.
What I'd like to talk about today
is adding support for third-party
calibrators into this architecture.
This is very, very simple to do.
All you do is you build your
Carbon or Cocoa calibrator application
the same way you have before.
You just need to make
a few small changes.
One is there is a key you
can add to your info.png.
This is the key you can
add to your info.png.
This key is the
CS display calibrator key,
and that tells ColorSync
that your application is,
in fact, a display calibrator.
Second,
there is a new optional property that's
associated with the open application
that your application will receive.
This property will be sent
to tell your application what
display to be calibrated.
Third,
you need to install your calibrator
or a SIM link to your calibrator in a
standard location so that we can find it.
That location is library
ColorSync calibrators.
And again,
just to get you started on this,
we have an example calibrator that's
installed in the system that's very
easy to use as a starting point.
Let me give a quick demo of this to
show you what we're talking about.
Back to demo two, please.
So first of all,
let me go and show you on the
system that if you go into Panther,
Developer, Examples, ColorSync,
we have a new project in
here called Demo Calibrator.
And we have all the sources in here,
and it's a good example for how
to do assistant-type UI in Cocoa.
And it has all the basic stuff you need
to do in order to support the property
list entry and the InfoP list entry
and the custom Apple event correctly.
We already have the
calibrator already pre-built,
and what I've done is I've,
instead of getting things set up,
is I've actually installed a
SIM link to that calibrator in
system library ColorSync calibrators.
So this would be what your calibration
app would want to do as well.
What that now means is if we go
to the system preference and click
on the display's color settings,
if we now click on the calibrate button,
there's a new dialog that appears.
That allows you... It allows
the user to choose which of the
installed calibrators to be used.
So just to complete the example,
I can click on the Demo Calibrator,
click Calibrate, and it'll launch it,
and you can see what this
Demo Calibrator's all about.
It's actually a very simple calibrator.
All it does is take the profile
that was already for the display
and ask the user to rename it
and saves it as a new profile.
So not much of a calibration,
but it's a good starting
point for your app.
So let me go back and quit.
Since I'm here, I'd also like to take the
opportunity to show some new
features we have in our calibrator,
because we've made some
important enhancements there
that I think you'd like to see.
So if we go and calibrate
this calibrator,
it looks very similar at the start.
You might be able to tell
it's built in Cocoa now,
but where the changes really show
up is if we turn on expert mode.
Because now,
instead of showing the three apples,
the red, green,
and blue apples side-by-side,
we now have finer,
more advanced controls.
What we have is the ability
to show a single patch and the
ability to adjust the brightness
and the tint of those separately,
which allows for much better control.
The main reason for this is it's very
hard for users to adjust the blue gamma,
because the blue is so much
less visible to the human eye.
So this is a bit of
audience precipitation time,
so if you guys can tell
me if that looks good.
I think that looks pretty good.
That looks pretty good to me so far.
And then we can adjust the tint
around to make sure it looks neutral.
What do you guys think?
Does that look good?
So that was the first change we made,
but then in addition we now
allow for multiple steps.
Instead of just adjusting the mid-tones,
we can now adjust the highlights,
the shadows, and the dark shadows,
so you can get a really good
calibration on LCD displays,
which have very complex gamma curves.
So you can go through here and step
through this calibration process.
And actually,
I should be calibrating the big screen,
not the small screen.
Anyhow, you got the idea.
That one looks good.
One of the other new advanced features is
we now also allow for the profile to be
used by other users on the same machine.
So as an admin user, you can say,
allow other users to
use this calibration.
And then we can save it.
All done.
So that's the new calibrator architecture
for third-party calibrators and
a peek at our newest calibrator.
So back to slides.
So, as I said, I was saving something
called CIPS for last.
And what does CIPS mean?
Well, actually,
the name's probably going to change.
But for now,
what CIPS stands for is Scriptable
Image Processing System.
And what I want to talk about today is
why we're doing something called CIPS,
and what its features are,
how it's architected,
and how you can use it.
So what we noticed is that we
needed a common place to go to
perform common operations on image
files in a scriptable manner.
This was evidenced by the fact that
today we had kind of a mixed story.
For example, we had ColorSync scripting,
which could do a lot of great
ColorSync operations on images,
but it could not rotate or scale or
convert images between file formats.
We had image capture scripting,
which could rotate and scale,
but it couldn't do color matching
or convert between formats.
And then we had the preview application,
which could do everything.
It could do rotation and conversion,
but it wasn't scriptable.
So all this was saying to us that
we needed to have a single central
place that would provide a tool for
scripters or batch processing in order
to do common operations on images.
So what are the features that we're
going after in the first release?
Well, one of the features is
going to be a good name.
That'll come later.
The other features will be we
want to be able to read and write
between common image file formats,
JPEG, variations of JPEG, TIFF, GIF,
and PNG.
We also wanted to support
basic image operations,
such as rotate and flip and crop.
And, of course, since this is a ColorSync
discussion today,
we want to support proper
color management operations,
embedding profiles, extracting profiles,
and matching between color spaces.
We want to be able to support
between common metadata tags and
support reading and writing of those.
And also, we wanted to,
as a general rule,
we wanted to preserve the fidelity
and content of the original
document as much as possible.
Of course,
this is just the beginning for this tool.
There's lots of places where we
can go with it in the future.
In the subsequent releases,
we're considering in the future adding
support for more complex file formats
like multi-layer or multi-page formats
and other more advanced image operations
such as blur or sharpen or enhance.
Also,
the list of metadata tags that people
are using is an always increasing number,
so we'd like to support more
of those in the future as well.
Here's the basic architecture
that we're working on.
Currently,
it's implemented as a simple compiled
tool that's installed in Userbin.
It's called Userbin Cepts for now.
And this is a tool that
links against Core Graphics,
QuickTime, and ColorSync.
It links against Core Graphics for
high-quality rotation and scaling.
It links against QuickTime for
a wide variety of image file
importing and exporting.
And it links against ColorSync for
the best quality color management.
It can operate on one file
or multiple files at a time.
It can be used to both query
or modify images or profiles.
Queries can either return properties
as simple text or can also return it
in XML format for special operations.
The actions can be used to modify
profiles or images in place
or can also be used to modify
them to an output directory.
So, next question is, well,
how can you use this?
Well, it's a simple command line tool,
so there's lots of ways to use this.
For example,
you can just go into Terminal and use it.
However, it's also going to be
usable from AppleScript.
We won't be showing that today,
but there's going to be an
AppleScript veneer on top of SIPs,
which will create an
AppleScript dictionary,
which will be very easy to use and
to expose all this functionality.
Also, it'll be available for
other scripting languages,
any scripting language that
can support command line tools.
And, of course,
it's also possible for you to call
this tool from your own app by using
standard either CF or NS or AppKit or
POSIX calls to launch executables.
So,
let me give you a demonstration of this.
Okay.
So I'm going to start out in Terminal.
And what I want to do first is
just going to type sips-help,
just to give an idea of what we have.
Eventually we need to have a man page,
but for now this is a good start.
As you can see,
you can call it to basically do
get properties or set properties.
And in addition, on images,
there's several other actions
that can be performed,
such as embedding profiles, rotating,
flipping, cropping, you name it.
So let's say, let's see,
let's try to think of some
things we want to do here.
I'm currently in a directory
that has a bunch of images in LS.
Let's say I want to see all the
information about this image,
Big Ben.
So I can do sips-get
property all on Big Ben.
And it quickly returns all the
information it was able to obtain.
So the height and width of the image,
the DPI of the image,
the model of the camera
that it was produced on.
Here's another type of query I can do.
Let's say I want to see which of all
these images have profiles in them.
So I can just do SIPs.
[Transcript missing]
And this will show me the list of all
the images that are in this directory.
Some of them have profiles,
some of them don't.
But it gives you a good idea
of the kind of the way that you
would use SIPs in actual usage.
Well, let's go and look at this directory
and I'll see if I can come up with
another example of how to use this tool.
So let me go to my photos
directory and view it in icons.
And I've got a bunch of images here,
and coincidentally,
one of them is upside down.
Gasp.
So what I would like to do
is use SIPs to fix that.
So what I'm going to
do is I'm going to do,
let's see, which photo is it?
It's Nevis' picture.
So I'm going to do SIPs-Rotate180,
and I'm going to pass in
And I'm going to make a copy of it and
I'll call it dash out to the-- oops.
And we're done.
So now if I go back to this
directory and the finder will update,
and we have the new image
which has been rotated.
So those are just some
very simple operations,
and it's quite handy.
However, there's some more advanced
things you could do as well.
Let me go back and view
this in column mode.
As you see, we have a bunch of
images in this directory.
And what I'd like to do is to build
a web page that contains thumbnails
of all these images along with the
information about these images.
So what I've done is I've
created a simple script,
in this case, this example,
using a Python.
You could have done this
in any number of scripts,
either shell scripting or
eventually we'll be able to do
this in Apple script as well.
But all this is is a simple, you know,
slightly more than one screen
of text that will take a
parameter from the input,
assume it's a directory,
and take all the images
in that directory,
create thumbnails.
Creating thumbnails is interesting
because that involves several operations.
Nailing the image down
to a reasonable size,
and in this case, converting them all to
JPEGs and converting them
all to standard color space,
in this case, sRGB.
Once it's done,
created all the thumbnails,
it will then query each image --
let me actually start this going
-- and produce a web page from it.
So I've called this
script build info.jpg.
image info web page,
and I'll pass in volumes, three, photos.
So again, as I said before,
it's going to build thumbnails
for all these images.
And actually,
some of these images are pretty big,
so it takes a bit.
And then once it's done
creating the thumbnails,
it's going to take each of
those images and query them and
return information about them.
So hopefully you can
read this well enough,
but this is the web page
that it created and opened,
and you can see all the photos along
with all the information about them,
including what camera
it was created with,
what the embedded profile is,
when the creation date is.
So hopefully that'll inspire you
to create all sorts of other tools
based on this foundation technology.
So that's our discussion for the day.
I think we have a really good story.
I think now more than ever we have a
story where we're continuing to add new
high-level functionality to ColorSync,
as well as increase the integration
with the rest of the system so that
you get correct behavior by default.
So I think if you had any
other words to wrap up,
that would be great.